The President: Hi everybody.
This is commencement season, a
time for graduates and their
families to celebrate one of
the greatest achievements
of a young person's life.
But for many graduates, it
also means feeling trapped
by a whole lot of student loan
debt and we've got to do more
to lift that burden.
See, in a 21st-century
economy, the surest pathway
into the middle class is some
form of higher education.
The unemployment rate for
workers with a Bachelor's degree
is just 3.3 percent,
about half what it is for
high school graduates.
A typical graduate of a
four-year college earns $15,000
more per year than someone
with just a high school diploma.
But at a time when college has
never been more important,
it's also never
been more expensive.
That's why since I took
office, I've worked to make
college more affordable.
We reformed the student loan
system that gave away billions
of taxpayer dollars to big
banks and invested that money
where it makes a bigger bang.
In helping more young people
afford a higher education.
But over the past three
decades, the average tuition
at a public four-year college
has more than tripled.
The average undergraduate
student who borrows for college
now graduates almost $30,000 and
I've heard from too many young
people who are frustrated
that they've done everything
they were supposed to do and
now they're paying the price.
I've taken action on my own
to offer millions of students
the opportunity to cap their
monthly student loan payments
to 10 percent of their income.
But Congress needs
to do its part.
The good news is that Senate
Democrats are working
on a bill that would help
more young people save money.
Just like you can refinance your
mortgage at a lower interest
rate, this bill would let you
refinance your student loans.
And we'd pay for it by closing
loopholes that allow some
millionaires to pay a lower tax
rate than the middle class.
That's the choice that your
representatives in Congress
will make in the coming weeks.
Protect young people from
crushing debt or protect
tax breaks for millionaires.
And while Congress decides
what it's going to do,
I will keep doing whatever
I can without Congress
to help responsible young
people pay off their loans,
including new action
I will take this week.
This country has always made
a commitment to put a good
education within the reach
of all who are willing
to work for it.
That's what made us an
economic superpower.
That's what makes us special and
as long as I hold this office,
I'll keep fighting to give
more young people the chance
to earn their own piece
of the American Dream.
Thanks and have a great weekend.